in this video I'd like to tell you about
the principal components analysis
algorithm and by the end of this video
you know how to implement PCA for
yourself and use it to reduce the
dimension of your data but for applying
PCA there's a data pre-processing step
which you should always stay given a
training set of M unlabeled examples is
important to always perform mean
normalization and then depending on your
data may be perform feature scaling as
well so this is very similar to the mean
normalization and feature scaling
process that we had for a supervised
learning in fact it's actually exactly
the same procedure except that we're
doing it now to our unlabeled data x1
through XM so for me normalization we
first computes the mean of each feature
and then we replace each feature X with
X minus this mean and so this makes each
feature now have exactly zero mean and
then second if the different features
have very different scales so for
example if x1 is the size of a house and
x2 is number of bedrooms to use our
earlier example we then also scale each
feature to have a comparable range of
values and so similar to what we had
with supervised learning or tickets I
subscript J that's the J feature and so
we would subtract off the mean now
that's what we have on top and then
divide by SJ here SJ is some measure of
their range of values of feature J so it
could be the max - min value or more
commonly it is the standard deviation of
each and J
having done this sort of data
pre-processing here's what the PCA
algorithm does we saw from the previous
video that what PCA does is it tries to
find a lower dimensional subspace onto
which to project the data so as to
minimize these squared projection errors
to some of the square projection errors
as the square of the lengths of
provide segments and so what we wanted
to do specifically is find a vector u1
which specifies that direction or in the
2d case we want to find two vectors u 1
and u 2 to define the surface onto which
to project the data so just as a quick
reminder of what reducing the dimension
of the data means for this example on
the Left we were given the examples X I
which are in r2 and what we'd like to do
is find a set that numbers Zi in our
with wish to represent our data right so
that's what a reduction from 2d to 1d
means and so specifically by projecting
the data onto this red line there we
need only one number to specify the
position of the points on the line so
I'm going to call that number Z of Z 1 Z
here this is a real number so that's
like a 1 dimensional vector so z1 just
refers to the first component of this
you know 1 by 1 matrix where this 1
dimensional vector and so we need only
one number to specify the position of a
point so if this example here was my
example x1 then maybe that gets mapped
here and at this example was next to
maybe is on this map here and so this
point here would be z1 and this point
here will be Z 2 and similarly you know
we would have those other points for
these are maybe Z X 3 X 2 X X 3 X 4 X 5
get mapped to z1 z2 z3 so what PCA has
to do is we need to come over a way to
compute two things one is to compute
these vectors u1 and in this case u 1
and u 2 and the other is how do we
compute these numbers
so on the example on the left we're
reducing the data from 2d to 1d in the
example on the right we will be reducing
data from three dimensional so f size in
r3 to Zi which is now two dimensional so
these V Z vectors will now be
two-dimensional so in z1 z2 like so and
so we need to give a way to compute
these new representations that z1 and z2
of the data as well so how do we compute
all of these quantities it turns out
that a mathematical derivation also the
mathematical proof for what is the right
value for u 1 u 2 Z 1 Z 2 and so on that
mathematical proof is very complicated
and beyond the scope of the course but
but once you've done all that math
derivation it turns out that the
procedure to actually find the value of
u 1 that you want it's not that hard
even though so the mathematical proof
that this value is the correct value is
somewhat more involved in more than one
we get into but let me just describe the
specific procedure that you have to
implement in order to compute all of
these things the vectors u 1 u 2 and
these vectors Z here's the procedure
let's say we want to reduce the data
from n dimensional to K dimensional what
we're going to do is first compute
something called the covariance matrix
and the covariance matrix is commonly
denoted by this Greek alphabet which is
a capital Greek alphabet Sigma it's a
bit unfortunate that the Greek alphabet
Sigma looks exactly like the summation
symbol so this is the Greek alphabet
Sigma is used to denote a matrix and
this here is a summation symbol so
hopefully in these slides there won't be
ambiguity about which is Sigma or the
matrix the covariance matrix M which is
a summation symbol
and hopefully you'll be clear from
context you know when I'm using each one
how to compute this this matrix Sigma
and let's say we were to store it in an
octave variable called Y or f I GMA what
we need to do is then compute something
called the eigenvectors of a matrix of
the matrix Sigma and in octave the way
you do that is you use this command us V
equals ng of Sigma SVD by the way stands
for a singular value decomposition this
is a much more advanced singular value
decomposition this is much more advanced
linear algebra than you actually need to
know but it turns out that when Sigma is
a covariance matrix there are a few ways
to compute these eigenvectors and if
you're an expert in linear algebra and
if you've heard of eigenvectors before
you may know that there's another octave
function called F which can also be used
to compute the same thing and turns out
that the SVD function and the I function
will give you the same eigen vectors or
the SVD is a little bit more numerically
stable so I tend to use SVD although I
have a few friends that use the AI
function to do this as well but when you
apply this to a covariance matrix Sigma
they'll give you the same thing that's
because the covariance matrix always
satisfies a mathematical property called
a symmetric positive semi definite you
really don't need to know what that
means but the SVD and the I functions
are different functions but when they're
applied to a covariance matrix which can
be proved to always satisfy this sort of
a mathematical property they'll always
give you the same thing okay that was
probably much more linear algebra than
you needed to know in case none of that
made sense don't worry about it all you
need to know is that this is a command
you should
implement in octave and if you're
looking up if you're implementing this
in a different language than octave or
MATLAB what you should do is find it in
numerical linear algebra library that
can compute the s-video singular value
decomposition and there are many such
libraries you know for almost for
probably all the major burying languages
and she will use that to find routine to
compute the matrices you snv given of
the covariance matrix Sigma
so just to fill in some more details
this covariance matrix Sigma will be an
N by n matrix and one way to see that is
if you look at the definition this is an
N by 1 vector and this here X I
transpose is 1 by N and so the product
of these two things is going to be an N
by n matrix right since 1 by NX I
transpose 1 1 is 1 by n so that's a and
by n matrix and we add up a bunch of
these you still have an N by n matrix
and what the SVD outputs is 3 matrices u
s and V and the thing we really need out
of the SVD is the new matrix so the U
matrix will be also an N by n matrix and
if we look at the columns of the U
matrix it turns out that the columns of
the U matrix will be exactly those
vectors you want u 2 and so on that we
want so you will be an invite
matrix and if we want to reduce the data
from n dimensions down to K dimensions
then what we need to do is just take the
first K vectors and that will give us u1
up to u K which are the K directions
onto which we want to project the data
so to describe the rest of the procedure
from this SVD numerical linear algebra
routine we get this matrix U and I'm
going to call is columns you want
through u n so just to wrap up the
description of the rest of seizure from
the SVD numerical linear algebra routine
we get these matrices u s and D and so
here's the matrix U and we're going to
use the first K columns of this matrix
to get u 1 through u K now the other
thing we need to do is we need to come
up with a way to take my original data
set X which is an RN and find a lower
dimensional representation Z which is in
R K for this data so the way I'm going
to do that is I'm going to take the
first K columns of the U matrix simula
construct this matrix over them stack up
u 1 u 2 and so on up to u K in columns
it's really basically taking you know
this part of the matrix right the first
K columns of this matrix and so this is
going to be an N by K matrix I'm going
to give this matrix a name I'm going to
call this matrix u subscript reduce sort
of a reduced version of the u matrix
maybe until they use B user to reduce
the dimension of my data and the way I'm
going to compute Z is going to let Z be
equal to this u reduced matrix transpose
times X or alternatively you know to
write down what this transpose means
when I take the transpose of this new
reduce matrix well I'm going to end up
with is these vectors now in rows I have
u 1 transpose down to UK transpose and
think that times X and that's how I get
my vector Z just to make sure that these
dimensions make sense this matrix here
is going to be K by N and X here is
going to be n by 1 and so their product
here will be K by 1 and so Z is K
dimensional the K dimensional vector
which is exactly what we wanted and of
course these X's here right can be
examples in our training set can be
examples my cross-validation set can be
examples on a test set and for example
if you know I want to take training
example I I can write this as X I X I
and that's what will give me Z I over
there so to summarize here's the PCA
algorithm on one slide after me
normalization says ensure every feature
a zero mean and optionally feature
scaling which you really should do
feature scaling of your features take on
very different ranges of values this
after this pre-processing we compute the
covariance matrix Sigma like so and by
the way if your data is given you know
as a matrix like this if you have your
data given in rows like this to give a
matrix capital X which is your entire
training set latenan rows X 1 transpose
down to exempt transpose this this
covariance matrix Sigma actually has a
nice vectorizing implementation so that
you can implement in octave you can
limit when Sigma equals 1 over m
times X which is this matrix up here
transpose times X and this simple
expression that's a vectorized
implementation for how to compute the
matrix Sigma I'm not going to prove that
this is a correct factorization but you
want you can either you know numerically
test this out yourself by trying out an
octave and making sure that both this
and this implementations give the same
answers or you can try to prove it
yourself mathematically either way but
this is a correct vectorized
implementation file to compute Sigma
next we can apply the SVD routine to get
us n V and then we grab the first K
columns of the U matrix to get u reduce
then finally this defines how we go from
a feature vector X to this reduced
dimension representation Z and similar
to came in severe applying PCA the way
you'd apply this is with vectors X in RN
right so this is not done with the X 0
equals 1 Convention so that was a PCA
algorithm one thing I didn't do was give
a mathematical proof that this procedure
actually gives the projection of the
data onto you know the K dimensional
subspace onto the K dimensional surface
that actually minimizes the square
projection error the mathematical proof
of that is beyond the scope of this
course but fortunately the PCA algorithm
can be implemented in you know not too
many lines of octave code and if you
implement it in octave or MATLAB you
actually get a very effective
dimensionality reduction algorithm
so that was the PCA algorithm one thing
I didn't do was give a mathematical
proof that you know the u1 u2 and so on
the disease and some one that you get
out of this procedure there's really the
choices that will minimize the squared
projection error right remember we said
what PCA tries to do is it tries to find
the surface or a line onto which to
project the data so as to minimize that
squared projection error so I didn't
prove that this actually achieves that
and the mathematical proof of that is
beyond the scope of this course but so
fortunately the PCA algorithm can be
implemented in you know not too many
lines of octave code and if you just
implement this this is actually what
will work what this will work well and
if you implement this algorithm you get
a very effective dimensionality
reduction algorithm that does do the
right thing of minimizing this squared
projection error